# Binder_Design_Pipline
 Binder_Design_Pipline for CS286

 Contributors: Qiqin Mo, Hao Zhang, Daohong Gong, Ken Chen

 Protein-Protein interaction plays important roles in biological proccess.
 If we can create a mini-protein to bind to a specific protein, we may alter
 the life proccess.

 David Baker team created RFdiffussion and ProteinMPNN, which makes in-silico protein 
 design possible. However, their split the work into several projects, which wast me too
 much time to configure the enviroment. 

 In the idea that make things easier, we combine all of the wheels and pack them into a handy car.
 Everyone can use it fast and easy.

 We also add a filter for RF generated structures. These filters will filter out those unstable structures 
 with long alpha-helix, and filter out binders distant from targets. With these filters, we filter out 
 about 15% of the RF generated structures that is useless. By doing so, we reduced time greatly and save
 much computational resource.

 **Most importantly, we make binder design easier, which save YOUR TIME!**
 

 This repo is designed to make binder design easier and accomlish the task of CS286 course.
 
 This repo is the join-effort of the Contributors. Each of them is indispensable

## Setup
1. Applied licence of pyRosseta
    The environment require PyRosetta which requires a license that
   is free to academics and available [here](https://graylab.jhu.edu/pyrosetta/downloads/documentation/PyRosetta_Install_Tutorial.pdf).
   This license will give you access to the USERNAME and PASSWORD
   
   If you do not provide this USERNAME and PASSWORD,
   you will get a CondaHTTPError when you attempt to run the installation.

After getting license, modify your condarc:
 - Ensure that you have the PyRosetta channel included in your ~/.condarc
   
**Your ~/.condarc should look something like this:**
```
channels:
  - defaults
  - https://USER:PASSWORD@conda.graylab.jhu.edu
```
    

2. clone this repo and cd to it.
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/Masterchiefm/Binder_Design_CS286.git
   cd Binder_Design_CS286
   ```
3. Setup the enviroment.
   ```
   bash setup.py
   ```
   Just wait for about 30min, and the setup will be done!

## Binder design
   It's very easy to run the pipeline!

   1) Open the file "binder_design_mannually.py" and then modify the
   "Input Cell" according to your design.

   2) Before run the script, please make sure there is "pandas" and "numpy" in current enviroment
    If not, please install them by:
    ```
    pip install pandas numpy
    ```

   4) Save changes and run the py file in current directory, don't run it in 
      other directory. And you don't need to activate the conda, for
      the script will activate it automatically.
      ```
      python3 binder_design_mannually.py
      ```

   5) Wait for Results.
      
    You can find your top n binders in {output_folder}/top_n
    All output structures can be found in {output_folder}
    
    ```
    top_n               ------- The top n structure rank by Pae_interaction_score
    AF_out              ------- Crossed validate by AF, and its output structures, sequence can be found in chain A of each pdb file
    MPNN_out            ------- Sequence generated by ProteinMPNN, sequence can be found in chain A of each pdb file
    filtered_structures ------- Structures with ideal comformation and short distance
    design_ppi_scaffold ------- PPI structure generated by RFdiffusion, these PDBs contains structure only, but contains NO seqquence!!!

    top_n_score.csv     ------- scores of top binders, also contains the binder sequence in last column.
    score.csv           ------- scores of AF_out binders.
    ```
    
## Troble shooting
If you encounter erro like this:
```
AttributeError: module 'numpy' has no attribute 'object'.
`np.object` was a deprecated alias for the builtin `object`. To avoid this error in existing code, use `object` by itself. Doing this will not modify any behavior and is safe.
```
Please activate to binder_design env and remove tensorflow, then
re-install tensorflow by:
```
mamba install tensorflow=2.12
```
This will solve the numpy erro while using tensorflow.

-------------------------
## Optional
You can find a conda env created in your home directory, which is
named binder_design.

IF you want to use RFdiffusion and ProteinMPNN independently, you
can first activate the env by typing
```
conda activate binder_design
```
then navigate to the folder "env_config", the two project is already
there, and you can do binder design or something else mentioned in 
RFdiffusion.

Enjoy!